Let's work on the actual editor page in
which we go and create that experience
in which you can add journal entries to,
and edit them, and things like that.
If you don't know this about me, I used to
have a startup that was a headless CMS.
I spent so much time working
on editors at this point.
I know way too much about it.
I have an overflow of information on
how text editors work in a browser.
And we're gonna use the most simplest
approach and it's gonna be great.
So we're not gonna do nothing crazy.
So yeah, let's get started.
The first thing we need to
do is create that route.
So if you go into the journal folder,
make a new folder.
All right, and then in this folder,
we're going to call it id.
Because we're navigating to /id.
We don't know what the id is,
so it has to be dynamic.
And then in here, we can do page.tsx,
Very, very, very simple.
Then we'll just say EditorPage.
Or I guess you could
just call it EntryPage.
That might be better, EntryPage.
There we go.
And then inside of the props here,
because it's in a dynamic route,
we should have params.
And then we can just return that div,
and then I'll just do params.id.
I do params.id because
I've named the folder id.
If I named the folder anything else,
it would be params.anythingelse.
Cool, so now when I click on this,
it actually goes somewhere.
Which is really cool.
All right,
let me make another entry right quick.
Okay, yep.
And then when I click on New Entry,
it goes to the new entry as well,
so we're good there.
And there's the problem,
we should have three entries now.
I just made a new one, but
it's only showing two, right?
I'm gonna make a fourth one.
There's a fourth one.
If I go back, it's still only showing two.
I'm gonna make a fifth one.
It's still only showing two.
If I refresh this, boom,
they show up, right?
So that's the problem that
I was trying to show.
We'll fix this problem later.
But for now, that's because, again,
fetching data on the server, updating
data, creating data on the client,
they know nothing about each other.
They're not connected systems.
By default, you have to connect them.
So this page that's fetching from
the server doesn't know that
the database in which it
pulls from got changed.
So it doesn't know that
it needs to do anything.
The quick way you could get around
this is just change the layout.
Well, no, you couldn't do it here.
No, there is no quick way.
[LAUGH] I was gonna say you could
just change this into a template.
But I forgot we're getting the data
in the page, not the layout.
So there really isn't a quick way
other than, I guess, changing.
No, there isn't a quick way.
It's gonna be the way that I
figured out is the quick way, but
there is no other quick way.
[LAUGH] You can't just change this to
a client and be like, done, right?
You can't just be like,
got it, we're good now.
No, because then all this breaks.
This breaks, this breaks.
You can forget about doing that.
None of this is gonna work.
It's just dead now, so
it's not that simple, yeah.
>> A hypothetical way to do that, though,
would be to pull out those pieces that we
wanted to be rendered on the client
into separate components,
give them to use client directive, and
then import them to this page component.
Is that correct?
So that everything here would still be
server rendered, but then there would be
those little kind of islands of
client rendered and client hydrated.
>> Yeah, so if you go down that approach,
what you would have to do is,
basically, all of this would be server.
All of this would be server.
And then this part would be client.
So you go to make another component called
entries list or something like that.
That's a client component.
And then it fetches data on the client,
like in a use effect.
I would just do a use effect and get all
the data, and then you can render that.
That would work, but
it won't look like this when you load it.
It won't look like that.
You will see this thing pop up,
this thing pop up, and
then these things will pop up afterwards.
And then the slower your connection,
the more dramatic that would be.
But then you can show loading
states if you wanted to.
So like I said,
there's never a right answer.
There's only trade-offs in software,
that's really it.
It's just like, well,
what trade-off do you wanna deal with?
Nothing's perfect,
which one can you deal with?
Which one do you want to deal with?
That's basically it.
I go for the one that's the easiest to do.
And then I don't change anything,
so [LAUGH] that's basically it.
I don't move on from that.